[[intro]]
== Introducing Sonatype Nexus

[[intro-sect-intro]]
=== Introduction

Nexus manages software "artifacts" required for development,
deployment, and provisioning. If you develop software, Nexus can help
you share those artifacts with other developers and end-users. Maven’s
central repository has always served as a great convenience for users
of Maven, but it has always been recommended to maintain your own
repositories to ensure stability within your organization. Nexus
greatly simplifies the maintenance of your own internal repositories
and access to external repositories. With Nexus you can completely
control access to, and deployment of, every artifact in your
organization from a single location.

[[intro-sect-os]]
=== Nexus Open Source

Nexus Open Source provides you with an essential level of control over
the external Maven repositories you use and the internal repositories
you create. It provides infrastructure and services for organizations
that use repository managers to obtain and deliver software. If you
create software libraries or applications for your end-users, you can
use Nexus Open Source to distribute your software. If your software
depends upon open source software components, you can cache software
artifacts from remote repositories.

==== Nexus Open Source Features

Hosting Repositories:: When you host a Maven repository with Nexus
Open Source, you can upload artifacts using the Nexus interface, or
you can deploy artifacts to hosted repositories using Maven. Nexus
will also create the standard Nexus Index for all of your hosted
repositories which will allow tools like m2eclipse to rapidly locate
software artifacts for your developers.
  
Proxy Remote Repositories:: When you proxy a remote repository with
Nexus Open source you can control all aspects of the connection to a
remote repository including security parameters, HTTP proxy
settings. You can configure which mirrors Nexus will download
artifacts from, and you can control how long Nexus will store
artifacts and how it will expire artifacts which are no longer
referenced by your build.
  
Repository Groups:: Grouping repositories allows you to consolidate
multiple repositories into a single URL. This makes configuring your
development environment very easy. All of your developers can point to
a single repository group URL, and if anyone ever needs a custom
remote repository added to the group, you can do this in a central
location without having to modify every developer’s workstation.
  
Hosting Project Web Sites:: Nexus is a publishing destination for
project web sites. While you very easily generate a project web site
with Maven, without Nexus, you will need to set up a WebDAV server and
configure both your web server and build with the appropriate security
credentials. With Nexus, you can deploy your project’s web site to the
same infrastructure that hosts the project’s build output. This single
destination for binaries and documentation helps to minimize the
number of moving parts in your development environment. You don’t have
to worry about configuring another web server or configuring your
builds to distribute the project site using a different protocol, you
simple point your project at Nexus and deploy the project site.

Fine-grained Security Model:: Nexus Open Source ships with a very
capable and customizable security model. Every operation in Nexus is
associated with a privilege, and privileges can be combined into
standard Nexus roles. Users can then be assigned both individual
privileges and roles that can be applied globally or at a fine grained
level. You can create custom administrative roles that limit certain
repository actions such as deployment to specific groups of developers
and you can use these security roles to model the structure of your
organization.
  
Flexible LDAP Integration:: If your organization uses an LDAP server,
Nexus Professional can integrate with an external authentication and
access control system. Nexus Professional is smart enough to be able
to automatically map LDAP groups to the appropriate Nexus roles, and
it also provides a very flexible facility for mapping existing users
and existing roles to Nexus roles.
  
Artifact Search:: Nexus Open Source provides an intuitive search
feature which allows you to search for software artifacts by
identifiers such as groupId, artifactId, version, classifier, and
packaging, names of classes contained in Java archives, keywords, and
artifact checksums. Nexus search makes use of the industry standard
for repository indexes, the Nexus Index format, and Nexus will
automatically download a Nexus index from all remote repositories
which create a Nexus index. Nexus will also automatically expose a
Nexus index for any hosted repositories you create.

Scheduled Tasks:: Nexus Open Source has the concept of scheduled tasks:
periodic jobs which take care of various repository management tasks
such as deleting old snapshots, evicting unused items, and publishing
repository indexes.

REST Services:: Nexus Open Source is based on a series of REST
services, and when you are using the Nexus web front-end UI, you are
really just interacting with a set of REST service. Because of this
open architecture, you can leverage the REST service to create custom
interactions or to automate repository management with your own
scripts.
  
Nexus Plugins:: Nexus Open Source provides a rich API for extension in
the form of Nexus Plugins. When you write a Nexus Plugin, you can
customize REST services, the Nexus UI, repository formats, or write
components that can intercept requests and add new capabilities to the
platform. The plugin API which you have access to in Nexus Open Source
is the same plugin API that is used to implement value-added features
available in Nexus Professional.
  
Integration with m2eclipse:: When you use Nexus as a repository
manager it creates indexes that support some of the next-generation
tools available in m2eclipse - Sonatype’s Maven plugin for the Eclipse
IDE. If you publish new artifacts and archetypes to Nexus, they are
immediately available to m2eclipse project creation wizards and are
included in m2eclipse search results.
  
==== Nexus Open Source License

Nexus Open Source is made available under the Eclipse Public License
version 1.0. The text of this license is available from the Open
Source Initiative (OSI) here:
http://www.opensource.org/licenses/eclipse-1.0.php

[[intro-sect-pro]]
=== Nexus Professional

Nexus Professional was designed to meet the needs of the enterprise.
It is a central point of access to external repositories which
provides the necessary controls to make sure that only approved
artifacts enter into your software development environment. It is also
a central distribution point with the intelligence required to support
the decision that go into making quality software. The extensibility
provided by the custom metadata plugin coupled with REST services only
available in Nexus Professional also lay the foundation for highly
complex interactions within the enterprise. Once you start to use the
work-flow and decision support features of Nexus Professional, you will
start to see it as the "assembly line" - the central collaboration
point for your software development efforts.

==== Nexus Professional Features

Nexus Procurement Suite:: Consider the default behaviour of a proxy
repository. Any developer can reference any artifact stored in a
remote repository and cause Nexus to retrieve the artifact from the
remote repository and serve back to a developer. Very often a company
might want to control the set of artifacts which can be referenced in
a proxy repository. Maybe the company has unique security requirements
which require every third-party library to be subjected to a rigorous
security audit before they can used. Or, maybe another company has a
legal team which needs to verify that every artifact referenced by
your software adheres to an inflexible set of license guidelines. The
Nexus Procurement Suite was design to give organization this level of
control over the artifacts that can be served from Nexus.

Nexus Staging Suite:: When was the last time you did a software
release to a production system? Did it involve a QA team that had to
sign-off on a particular build? What was the process you used to
re-deploy a new build if QA found a problem with the system at the last
minute? Because few organizations use a mature process to manage
binary software artifacts, there is little in the way of
infrastructure designed to keep track of the output of a build.  The
Nexus Staging Suite changes this by provide work-flow support for
binary software artifacts. If you need to create a release artifact
and deploy it to a hosted repository, you can use the Staging Suite to
post a collection of related, staged artifacts which can be tested,
promoted, or discarded as a unit. Nexus keeps track of the individuals
that are involved in a staged, managed release and can be used to
support the decisions that go into producing quality software.
    
Support for OSGi Repositories:: Instead of just supporting Maven
repositories, Nexus Professional supports OSGi Bundle repositories and
P2 repositories for those developers who are targeting OSGi or the
Eclipse platform. Just like you can proxy, host, and group Maven
repositories, Nexus Professional allows you to do the same with OSGi
repositories.
  
Enterprise LDAP Support:: Nexus Professional offers LDAP support
features for enterprise LDAP deployments including detailed
configuration of cache parameters, support for multiple LDAP servers
and backup mirrors, the ability to test user logins, support for
common user/group mapping templates, and the ability to support more
than one schema across multiple servers.
  
Support for Atlassian Crowd:: If your organization uses Atlassian
Crowd, Nexus Professional can delegate authentication and access
control to a Crowd server and map Crowd groups to the appropriate
Nexus roles.
  
The User Account Plugin:: When you are running a large, public
instance of Nexus, it is often very useful to allow users to sign up
for an account without the assistance of an administrator. Nexus
Professional’s User Account plugin allows for just this. With this
plugin activate, a new user simply has to fill out a simple form and
type in letters from a captcha. Once a user has signed up for Nexus,
Nexus will then send an email with a validation link. If you are
working in an environment with hundreds or thousand of users the user
account plugin will allow you to support the tool without having to
create logins for each individual user.
  
Maven Settings Management:: Nexus Professional along with the Nexus
Maven Plugin allow you to manage Maven Settings. Once you have
developed a Maven Settings template, developers can then connect to
Nexus Professional using the Nexus Maven plugin which will take
responsibility for downloading a Maven Settings file from Nexus and
replacing the existing Maven Settings on a local workstation.
  
Support for Artifact Bundles:: When software is deployed to the Maven
Central repository, it is deployed as a signed artifact bundle. Nexus
Professional’s Staging Suite allows you to upload artifact bundles to
a staged repository.
  
Artifact Validation and Verification:: The software artifacts you
download from a remote repository are often signed with PGP
signatures. Nexus Professional will make sure that these PGP signature
are valid and the procurement plugin defines a few other rules that
can be applied to artifacts which are downloaded from remote
repositories. Nexus Professional also defines an API which allows you
to create your own custom verification rules.
  
Custom Repository Metadata:: Nexus Professional provides a facility
for user-defined, custom metadata. If you need to keep track of custom
attributes to support approval work-flow or to associate custom
identifiers with software artifacts, you can use Nexus to define and
manipulate custom attributes which can be associated with artifacts in
a Nexus repository.
  
==== Nexus Professional License

Nexus Professional is made available under a commercial license for
businesses. Is available for free for use in qualifying Open Source
projects, and is available at a discount for select Non-profits.

[[intro-sect-choosing]]
=== Choosing a Nexus Edition

If you are wondering which edition is appropriate for your
organization. The following sections outline some reasons for choosing
either Nexus Open Source of Nexus Professional with more information
available on the http://www.sonatype.org/nexus/why[Nexus website].

==== Use Nexus Open Source...

...if you are new to Repository Management:: If you are new to
repository management, you should pick up a copy of Nexus Open Source,
and experiment with Hosted and Proxy repositories. You should get a
sense of how Maven Settings are configured to retrieve artifacts from
a single Repository Group, and you should download a copy of the free
Nexus book - Repository Management with Nexus. Once you've
familiarized yourself with Nexus Open Source, you can easily upgrade to
Nexus Professional by downloading and installing Nexus
Professional. Nexus stores all of your repository data and
configuration in a directory named sonatype-work which is separate
from the Nexus application directory.
  
...if you are looking for more stability and control:: If you depend
directly on public repositories such as the Maven Central repository
or the various repositories maintained by organizations like Codehaus
or the Apache Software Foundation, you rely on these servers to be
available to your developers 100% of the time. If a public repository
goes down for maintenance, so does your development process. With a
local proxy of Maven artifacts, you buy yourself a stable, isolated
build. Even if a public repositories becomes unavailable, you will
still be able to build your software against artifacts cached in your
own Nexus installation.
  
...if you need to manage internal software distribution:: If your
organization needs to support collaboration between internal teams,
you can use Nexus to support the distribution of internal
software. With Nexus, sharing components between internal groups is as
easy as adding a dependency from Maven Central. Just publish a JAR to
Nexus, configure the appropriate repositories groups and inform others
in our organization of the Maven coordinates. Using a repository
management doesn't just make it easier to proxy external software
artifacts, it makes it easier to share internal artifacts.
  
...if you need an intelligent local proxy:: Many developers run Nexus
on a local workstation as a way to gain more control over the
repositories used by Nexus. This is also a great way to start
evaluating Nexus. Download and install Nexus on your local workstation
and point your Maven settings at http://localhost:8081/nexus. When you
need to add a new repository, all you need to do is change the
configuration of your local Nexus installation.
  
...if you need to integrate with an LDAP server:: If you need to
integrate Nexus with an an LDAP server, download Nexus Open
Source. Nexus provides documented integration with popular LDAP
servers such as OpenLDAP, Microsoft's Active Directory Server, and any
other directory product which implements the LDAP standard.
  
==== Use Nexus Professional...

...if you are looking for Professional Support:: When you purchase
Nexus Professional, you are purchasing one year of support from the
team that created the industry-standard in repository management. With
Nexus Professional, you not only get a capable repository manager, you
get the peace of mind that help is just a phone call away. Sonatype
also offers an array of implementation and migration services for
organizations looking for an extra level of assistance. Contact
Sonatype Sales for more information, call +1 (888) 866-2836.
  
...if you need a repository manager that can support release and quality assurance decisions:: 
Nexus Professional's Staging Suite can
track the status of a software release and make sure that different
decision makers are notified and supported during a software
release. If you are looking for a repository manager that can automate
and support software releases, download Nexus Professional and start
learning about Staged repositories and Staging Rule-sets. When you
start using Nexus Professional, your operations, quality assurance,
and development teams can use the repository manager as a central
point of collaboration.
  
...if you need more control over external artifacts:: If you need more
control over which external artifacts can be referenced and used in
internal projects, you will need to use the Nexus Procurement Suite
which is a part of Nexus Professional.  While repositories like Maven
Central are a great convenience, allowing your developers carte
blanche access to any external library is often unacceptable in
today's legal and regulatory environment. Nexus Professional's
Procurement Suite allows you to enforce standards for external
libraries. If you want to ensure that every dependency is evaluated
for security or license compliance, download Nexus Professional.
  
...if you develop software for an Open Source project:: Are you
developing an open source project? If so, most open source projects
qualify for a free Nexus Professional license.  Open source projects
can qualify for a free Professional license, or they can take
advantage of free Nexus Professional hosting on
http://oss.sonatype.org. Sonatype is very committed to supporting the
development of quality open source and this is our way of giving back
to the community.
  
...if you are developing and deploying to OSGi platforms:: If you are
developing OSGi components using OBR repositories, or if you are
developing OSGi components using the P2 repository format, you will
need to use the OSGi support available in the Nexus Professional
distribution. Nexus Professional supports a wider array of repository
formats than Nexus Open Source. As the industry moves toward OSGi as a
standard, you should be using a product which supports these emerging
standards as well as the existing repository formats used by millions
of developers.
  
...if you need to integrate with Enterprise-level Security (LDAP and
Crowd):: If you need to integrate Nexus with an Atlassian Crowd server
or an enterprise LDAP deployment involving multiple servers or
multiple LDAP schemas, download Nexus Professional. While Nexus Open
Source provides extension points for writing custom security realms,
Nexus Professional provides solid LDAP and Crowd support for the
large, mission-critical deployments. If you need to support LDAP
fail-over and federation, use Nexus Professional.
  
[[intro-sect-history]]
=== History of Nexus

Tamas Cservenak started working on Proximity in December 2005 as he
was trying to find a way to isolate his own systems from an incredibly
slow ADSL connection provided by a Hungarian ISP. Proximity started as
a simple web application to proxy artifacts for a small organization
with connectivity issues. Creating a local on-demand cache for Maven
artifacts from the Maven Central repository gave an organization
access to the artifacts on the Maven Central Repository, but it also
made sure that these artifacts weren't downloaded over a very slow
ADSL connection used by a number of developers.

In 2007,  Sonatype asked Tamas to help create a similar product named
Nexus. Nexus is currently considered the logical next step to
Proximity. Nexus currently has an active development team, and
portions of the indexing code from Nexus are also being used in
m2eclipse.

////
/* Local Variables: */
/* ispell-personal-dictionary: "ispell.dict" */
/* End:             */
////



